Elaborate on sort comparator formal rules (#18305)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/array/sort/index.md

- _Pure_: The comparator does not mutate the objects being compared or any external state. (This is important because there's no guarantee _when_ and _how_ the comparator will be called, so any particular call should not produce visible effects to the outside.)
- _Stable_: The comparator returns the same result with the same pair of input.
- _Reflexive_: `compare(a, a) === 0`.

> - _Symmetric_: `Math.sign(compare(a, b)) === -1 * Math.sign(compare(b, a))`.

Reviewer: I thought about it when I was writing this paragraph; but it can be naturally derived from transitivity and the original symmetry statement (using contradiction), so I kept it the same way as it was phrased in the spec.

> - _Transitive_: For every given `a, b, c` true that if `Math.sign(compare(a, b)) !== -1 * Math.sign(compare(b, c))` than `Math.sign(compare(a, b) + compare(b, c)) === Math.sign(compare(a, c))` (e.g. `a<b<c` than `a<c` and `a=b<c` than `a<c`, etc.)

Reviewer: I find this harder to understand than the original...

Author: For me;
> If compare(a, b) and compare(b, c) are both positive, zero, or negative, then compare(a, c) has the same positivity as the previous two.
Means this three cases should be true;
```
compare(a, b) > 0 && compare(b, c) > 0 && compare(a, c) > 0
compare(a, b) === 0 && compare(b, c) === 0 && compare(a, c) === 0
compare(a, b) < 0 && compare(b, c) < 0 && compare(a, c) < 0
```
And leaving out cases like these;
```
compare(a, b) > 0 && compare(b, c) === 0 && compare(a, c) > 0
compare(a, b) === 0 && compare(b, c) < 0 && compare(a, c) < 0
```

I thought about just giving a code-block and write up all the cases/rules that the function should satisfy.

Reviewer: > `compare(a, b) > 0 && compare(b, c) === 0 && compare(a, c) > 0`

This can be deduced.

Given `compare(a, b) > 0 && compare(b, c) === 0`:

- Suppose `compare(a, c) < 0`
  - `compare(a, b) > 0` => `compare(b, a) < 0` (symmetry)
  - `compare(b, a) < 0` && `compare(a, c) < 0` => `compare(b, c) < 0` (transitivity)
  - Contradiction
- Suppose `compare(a, c) === 0`
  - `compare(a, c) === 0` && `compare(b, c) === 0` => `compare(a, b) === 0` (transitivity)
  - Contradiction

I see you are trying to be more explicit, but, both by proof and by intuition, these three rules here are already complete. The re-written one is not understandable to me, and I personally can't find a better way to rephrase it, so I suggest keeping the original.

Author: Your example only works bcs symmetry get fixed.
With the old rule;

> If `compare(a, b) === 0`, then `compare(b, a) === 0`.

You can't use;

> `compare(a, b) > 0` => `compare(b, a) < 0` (symmetry)

So, I'm down to agree, that with your symmetry rephrase, the original transition rule is easier to understand and covers all cases. But the two original rule had holes in it.

Reviewer: You can still deduce the other two cases of symmetry with the original rules:

Given `compare(a, b) > 0`, suppose `compare(b, a) > 0`, then by transitivity `compare(a, a) > 0` which is contradiction. Suppose `compare(b, a) === 0`, then by the old symmetry rule `compare(a, b) === 0` which is contradiction.

So I agree that the symmetry rephrase makes it more explicit, but the old definition was literally [how the spec defines the comparator](https://tc39.es/ecma262/#sort-order) and also how equivalence functions are canonically defined.

Anyway, it seems the resolution is that the original statement for transitivity is good as-is, given this symmetry rephrase?

> Your sort method is probably wrong, if it only contains `1, 0` or `0, -1` as return values, because it will break the _Symmetric_ behaviour (altough the `1, 0` will seem to work in some environments).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A comparator conforming to the rules above will always be able to return all of `1`, `0`, and `-1`. For example, if a comparator only returns `1` and 0`, or only returns `0` and `-1`, it will not be able to sort reliably because _symmetry_ is broken.
```
